Now, I just want to tell you this, of course, this whole list of the many, many numbers, one up,
another this.
But it's just, of course, we're starting now. We're starting there, that's what we're learning and
going through all this, this one up, as much as it can, or we can, in our time then.
But otherwise, most of us is lay practitioners, or pastas, lay practitioners. So this is not
something that you have to completely know that.
But if you know that a bit, as much as roughly that you have understand, then it's really good,
good.
Because one of the teachings, I will tell those later that, but this will bring a little more, kind
of like mindfulness, alertness, and of course, you know, it will help our practice in meditation.
So even though it's a lot of many numbers and this and that, you don't have to really concern and
worry.
I know, yeah, everywhere I go or teach, when we talk a lot of numbers, and people kind of feel that
.
Even though you've all been in the college and started in the university and all that, I'm sure
there's a lot of list of numbers explaining this and that in college.
But then still, kind of like people are kind of not so excited with the numbers.
And so I know that, that is.
Also for me, it's kind of like one after another, according to two different languages or thinking
in the Tibetan language and talking in English sometimes.
Sometimes it's a little bit of mixing up and all that, not flowing so well that I know this, it's
kind of a little bit hard.
But at least recollecting to the recording and the teaching of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyam
uni, is teaching on the really love and kindness and compassion, how we improve ourself and benefit
to others.
As much as we can remember and as much as we can think, it is really good. It is like a round cake,
round cake.
Small bite is delicious, big bite is delicious. It's just delicious.
So don't have to really kind of concern or I don't remember this and that.
But even the smallest thing just is really big benefit. It's just helping. It just rains to the
heart, rains to the air so nicely.
Oh, that's really true. I mean, it's also so practical.
The Buddha, I mean, I said in teaching and it's also in the Buddhist book making that, Buddha never
made the rules.
These whole rules, this happened. It's not really like Buddha made the rule and then saying that, "
Oh, I created this, I'm happening."
It's everything is really happening at that time.
And many great masters said that happened, thank you, really said otherwise we won't have the rules
like this.
Because when I had this, most of this also happened and so many of those detailed things happened
because of these six naughty monks and twelve naughty monks.
Nuns.
Nuns, sorry, twelve naughty nuns created that they did and the Buddha said, "No, not that."
But if they didn't act, this won't happen and then we can make all these mistakes.
Our morality, our conduct will become not so pure, so refined.
Even this clearly mentioned, we won't be able to keep all these things.
It's not just only us in the teaching said it's very difficult to keep all this.
What the great master Ravakshi said, great master is one of the great masters in the Tibetan
Buddhist history, really very famous.
He became very famous in his lifetime. So they asked him, "All the great masters, they can do a lot
of miracle activities, miracle activities.
Master, you will do miracle activities. Would you show us some miracle activities?"
The student asked.
He said, "My miracle activities are keeping vows perfectly beautiful. That is my miracle activities
."
That's what he said. He said, "The old man, able to maintain the perfect vows of the Vinaya, and
that is my miracle activities."
And later on, all the great masters, all the great masters take that quotations.
It's true, true. He kept it so perfectly beautiful according to them.
And similarly, the one who wrote this root text is Vinod. He kept it so perfectly beautiful vows.
To keep in detail vows and all that is difficult, particularly when he is more difficult in the
teaching said.
What the great master Atihya said when he came to bed, he told him to be able to keep perfectly Vin
aya rules. Perfect.
But when he came to the bodhisattva yanas, he became kind of a little bit sloppy.
When he came to this Vaidyan vow, then very sloppy. He told this great master.
So it's very, many times we both think, "Oh, Vaidyan vow is so easy. Also you can do this and that
."
That is very mistakes, pretty mistakes. This all included, these vows, what we're talking here,
they included Vaidyan vow. All that.
So therefore, we have a little bit of knowledge. Let me shine on the knowledge.
And we know that ignorance is bliss, but ignorance is bliss. It's not that bliss. It's forever
bliss.
This makes, "Oh, let it shine on the light, on the surface."
And we know a little bit on that. Really, really good.
I remember, I think, this great, this Mongolian, Gephi said, "When I don't know the Vinaya, I have
the vow."
She said, "She's true." He don't know. He didn't say that, but ignorance is bliss.
So he said, "It's comfortable."
But when he read the Vinaya, he said, "My vow is gone."
So that's the thinking. So it's good. Really okay. Thank you.
And then, we talked about what's called now, the stupid side, but we're having, I'm sure they
already know that.
But we have a really nice view to another.